.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

<!--- Before submitting your pull request --->
<!--- please complete as much as possible of the following checklist: --->

### Pull Request Checklist

* [ ] Read and followed this repo's [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
* [ ] Based your PR on the latest version of the correct branch (master or 3.x)
* [ ] Followed [PEP8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) for code style
* [ ] Ensured your pull request hasn't eliminated unrelated blank lines/spaces,
      modified the ``spyder/defaults`` directory, or added new icons/assets
* [ ] Wrote at least one-line docstrings for any new functions
* [ ] Added at least one unit test covering the changes, if at all possible
* [ ] Described your changes and the motivation for them below
* [ ] Noted what issue(s) this pull request resolves, creating one if needed
* [ ] Included a screenshot, if this PR makes any visible changes to the UI


### Affirmation

By submitting this Pull Request, I affirm that:
* I release the content of this PR under Spyder's MIT (Expat) license.
* I hold the copyright to all the content in this PR, have not copied any of it
  directly or indirectly from any source other than the public domain,
  and no other party owns the rights to this work.

<!--- TYPE YOUR GITHUB USERNAME OR FULL NAME AFTER THE BELOW STATEMENT ---!>
I affirm all of the above:

<!--- Note that you (not Spyder) retain copyright ownership of your work, --->
<!--- and may license it to other parties under the terms of your choice. --->
<!--- Contact us if you would like to include content from other sources. --->


## Description of Changes

<!--- Describe what you've changed and why. --->




### Issue(s) Resolved

<!--- Pull requests should typically resolve one, preferably only one --->
<!--- outstanding issue; create a new one if no relevant issue exists. --->
<!--- List the issue(s) below, in the form "Fixes #1234" . One per line.--->

Fixes #


<!--- Thanks for your help making Spyder better for everyone! --->

Commit message:

Update affirmation to link to standardized developer COI

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

<!--- Before submitting your pull request --->
<!--- please complete as much as possible of the following checklist: --->

### Pull Request Checklist

* [ ] Read and followed this repo's [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
* [ ] Based your PR on the latest version of the correct branch (master or 3.x)
* [ ] Followed [PEP8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) for code style
* [ ] Ensured your pull request hasn't eliminated unrelated blank lines/spaces,
      modified the ``spyder/defaults`` directory, or added new icons/assets
* [ ] Wrote at least one-line docstrings for any new functions
* [ ] Added at least one unit test covering the changes, if at all possible
* [ ] Described your changes and the motivation for them below
* [ ] Noted what issue(s) this pull request resolves, creating one if needed
* [ ] Included a screenshot, if this PR makes any visible changes to the UI


### Developer Certificate of Origin Affirmation

By submitting this Pull Request or typing my name below, I affirm the
[Developer Certificate of Origin](https://developercertificate.org/)
with respect to both the content of the contribution itself and this post,
and understand I am releasing it under Spyder's MIT (Expat) license.


<!--- TYPE YOUR GITHUB USERNAME AFTER THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT ---!>
I certify the above statement is true and correct:

<!--- Note that you (not Spyder) retain copyright ownership of your work, --->
<!--- and may license it to other parties under the terms of your choice. --->
<!--- Contact us before incorporating any content from external projects. --->


## Description of Changes

<!--- Describe what you've changed and why. --->




### Issue(s) Resolved

<!--- Pull requests should typically resolve one, preferably only one --->
<!--- outstanding issue; create a new one if no relevant issue exists. --->
<!--- List the issue(s) below, in the form "Fixes #1234" . One per line.--->

Fixes #


<!--- Thanks for your help making Spyder better for everyone! --->
