doc/installation.rst, before:

Installation
============

Spyder is quite easy to install on Windows, Linux and macOS. Just the read the
following instructions with care.

Installing on Windows Vista/7/8/10
----------------------------------

The easy way
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Spyder is already included in these *Python Scientific Distributions*:

* `Anaconda <https://www.anaconda.com/download/>`_
* `WinPython <https://winpython.github.io/>`_
* `Python(x,y) <https://code.google.com/p/pythonxy>`_

You can start using it immediately after installing one of them (you only need
to install one!).


The hard way
~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you want to install Spyder directly, you need to follow these steps:

#. Install the essential requirements:

   * `The Python programming language <http://www.python.org/>`_
   * `PyQt5 <http://www.riverbankcomputing.co.uk/software/pyqt/download5>`_ (recommended)
     or `PyQt4 <http://www.riverbankcomputing.co.uk/software/pyqt/download>`_

#. Install Spyder and its dependencies by running this command::

       pip install spyder


Updating Spyder
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can update Spyder by:

* Updating Anaconda, WinPython or Python(x,y).

* Or using this command (in case you *don't* use any of those scientific
  distributions)::

        pip install --upgrade spyder

  .. note::

     This command will also update all Spyder dependencies

|

Installing on macOS
-------------------

The easy way
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Thanks to the Spyder team and `Anaconda <https://www.anaconda.com/>`_, Spyder is included
in the `Anaconda <https://www.anaconda.com/download/>`_ Python distribution,
which comes with everything you need to get started in an all-in-one package.


The hard way
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Thanks to the *MacPorts* project, Spyder can be installed using its ``port`` package manager.
There are `several versions`__ available from which you can choose from.

__ http://www.macports.org/ports.php?by=name&substr=spyder

  .. warning::

     It is known that the MacPorts version of Spyder is raising this error:
     ``ValueError: unknown locale: UTF-8``, which doesn't let it start correctly.
   
     To fix it you will have to set these environment variables in your
     ``~/.profile`` (or ``~/.bashrc``) manually::
        
        export LANG=en_US.UTF-8
        export LC_ALL=en_US.UTF-8

|

Installing on Linux
-------------------

Please refer to the `Requirements`_ section to see what other packages you
might need.

**Ubuntu**:

   * Using the official package manager: ``sudo apt-get install spyder``.

     .. note::

        This package could be slightly outdated. If you find that is the case,
        please use the Debian package mentioned below.

   * Using the `pip <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pip/>`_ package manager:

     * Installing: ``sudo pip install spyder``
     * Updating: ``sudo pip install -U spyder``

     
**Debian Unstable**:
  
   Using the package manager: ``sudo apt-get install spyder``

   The Spyder's official Debian package is available `here`__ 
  
   __ http://packages.debian.org/fr/sid/spyder.


**Other Distributions**

   Spyder is also available in other GNU/Linux distributions, like

   * `Archlinux <https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/?K=spyder>`_

   * `Fedora <https://admin.fedoraproject.org/pkgdb/acls/name/spyder?_csrf_token=ab2ac812ed6df3abdf42981038a56d3d87b34128>`_

   * `Gentoo <http://packages.gentoo.org/package/dev-python/spyder>`_

   * `openSUSE <https://build.opensuse.org/package/show?package=python-spyder&project=home%3Aocefpaf>`_

   * `Mageia <http://mageia.madb.org/package/show/name/spyder>`_

   Please refer to your distribution's documentation to learn how to install it
   there.

|

Installing or running directly from source
------------------------------------------

Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The requirements to run Spyder are:

* `Python <http://www.python.org/>`_ 2.7 or >=3.3

* `PyQt5 <https://www.riverbankcomputing.com/software/pyqt/download5>`_ >=5.2 or
  `PyQt4 <https://www.riverbankcomputing.com/software/pyqt/download>`_ >=4.6.0
  (PyQt5 is recommended).

* `Qtconsole <http://jupyter.org/qtconsole/stable/>`_ >=4.2.0 -- for an
  enhanced Python interpreter.

* `Rope <http://rope.sourceforge.net/>`_ >=0.9.4 and
  `Jedi <http://jedi.jedidjah.ch/en/latest/>`_ >=0.9.0 -- for code completion,
  go-to-definition and calltips on the Editor.

* `Pyflakes <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/pyflakes>`_  -- for real-time
  code analysis.

* `Sphinx <http://sphinx.pocoo.org>`_ -- for the Help pane rich text mode
  and to get our documentation.

* `Pygments <http://pygments.org/>`_ >=2.0 -- for syntax highlighting and code
  completion in the Editor of all file types it supports.

* `Pylint <http://www.logilab.org/project/pylint>`_  -- for static code analysis.

* `Pycodestyle <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pycodestyle>`_ -- for style analysis.

* `Psutil <http://code.google.com/p/psutil/>`_  -- for memory/CPU usage in the status
  bar.

* `Nbconvert <http://nbconvert.readthedocs.org/>`_ -- to manipulate Jupyter notebooks
  on the Editor.

* `Qtawesome <https://github.com/spyder-ide/qtawesome>`_ >=0.4.1 -- for an icon theme based on
  FontAwesome.

* Pickleshare -- To show import completions on the Editor and Consoles.

* `PyZMQ <https://github.com/zeromq/pyzmq>`_ -- To run introspection services on the
  Editor asynchronously.

* `QtPy <https://github.com/spyder-ide/qtpy>`_ >=1.2.0 -- To run Spyder with PyQt4 or
  PyQt5 seamlessly.

* `Chardet <https://github.com/chardet/chardet>`_ >=2.0.0-- Character encoding auto-detection
  in Python.
  
* `Numpydoc <https://github.com/numpy/numpydoc>`_ Used by Jedi to get return types for
  functions with Numpydoc docstrings.

Optional modules
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `Matplotlib <http://matplotlib.sourceforge.net/>`_ >=1.0 -- for 2D and 3D plotting
  in the consoles.

* `Pandas <http://pandas.pydata.org/>`_ >=0.13.1 -- for view and editing DataFrames
  and Series in the Variable Explorer.

* `Numpy <http://numpy.scipy.org/>`_ -- for view and editing two or three
  dimensional arrays in the Variable Explorer.

* `Sympy <http://www.sympy.org/es/>`_ >=0.7.3 -- for working with symbolic mathematics
  in the IPython console.

* `Scipy <http://www.scipy.org/>`_ -- for importing Matlab workspace files in
  the Variable Explorer.

* `Cython <http://cython.org/>`_ >=0.21 -- Run Cython files or Python files that
  depend on Cython libraries in the IPython console.


Installation procedure
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you use Anaconda, you need to run this command to install Spyder:

   ``conda install spyder``

If you don't use Anaconda, you need to run:

   ``pip install --upgrade spyder``


Run without installing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can execute Spyder without installing it first by following these steps:

#. Unzip the source package
#. Change current directory to the unzipped directory
#. Run Spyder with the command ``python bootstrap.py``
#. (*Optional*) Build the documentation with ``python setup.py build_doc``.

This is especially useful for beta-testing, troubleshooting and development 
of Spyder itself.

|

Installing the development version
----------------------------------

If you want to try the next Spyder version, you have to:

#. Install Spyder `requirements`_

#. Install `Git <http://git-scm.com/downloads>`_, a powerful
   source control management tool.

#. Clone the Spyder source code repository with the command:

   ``git clone https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder.git``

#. To keep your repository up-to-date, run

   ``git pull``
   
   inside the cloned directory.

#. (*Optional*) If you want to read the documentation, you must build it first with
   the command
  
   ``python setup.py build_doc``

|

Help and support
----------------

Spyder websites:

* For bug reports and feature requests you can go to our
  `website <https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/issues>`_.
* For discussions and help requests, you can suscribe to our
  `Google Group <http://groups.google.com/group/spyderlib>`_.

Commit message:

Add section on Anaconda distribution for Linux to install doc

doc/installation.rst, after:

Installation
============

Spyder is quite easy to install on Windows, Linux and macOS. Just the read the
following instructions with care.

Installing on Windows Vista/7/8/10
----------------------------------

The easy way
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Spyder is already included in these *Python Scientific Distributions*:

* `Anaconda <https://www.anaconda.com/download/>`_
* `WinPython <https://winpython.github.io/>`_
* `Python(x,y) <https://code.google.com/p/pythonxy>`_

You can start using it immediately after installing one of them (you only need
to install one!).


The hard way
~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you want to install Spyder directly, you need to follow these steps:

#. Install the essential requirements:

   * `The Python programming language <http://www.python.org/>`_
   * `PyQt5 <http://www.riverbankcomputing.co.uk/software/pyqt/download5>`_ (recommended)
     or `PyQt4 <http://www.riverbankcomputing.co.uk/software/pyqt/download>`_

#. Install Spyder and its dependencies by running this command::

       pip install spyder


Updating Spyder
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can update Spyder by:

* Updating Anaconda, WinPython or Python(x,y).

* Or using this command (in case you *don't* use any of those scientific
  distributions)::

        pip install --upgrade spyder

  .. note::

     This command will also update all Spyder dependencies

|

Installing on macOS
-------------------

The easy way
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Thanks to the Spyder team and `Anaconda <https://www.anaconda.com/>`_, Spyder is included
in the `Anaconda <https://www.anaconda.com/download/>`_ Python distribution,
which comes with everything you need to get started in an all-in-one package.


The hard way
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Thanks to the *MacPorts* project, Spyder can be installed using its ``port`` package manager.
There are `several versions`__ available from which you can choose from.

__ http://www.macports.org/ports.php?by=name&substr=spyder

  .. warning::

     It is known that the MacPorts version of Spyder is raising this error:
     ``ValueError: unknown locale: UTF-8``, which doesn't let it start correctly.
   
     To fix it you will have to set these environment variables in your
     ``~/.profile`` (or ``~/.bashrc``) manually::
        
        export LANG=en_US.UTF-8
        export LC_ALL=en_US.UTF-8

|

Installing on Linux
-------------------

The easy way
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Thanks to the Spyder team and `Anaconda <https://www.anaconda.com/>`_, Spyder is included
in the `Anaconda <https://www.anaconda.com/download/>`_ Python distribution,
which comes with everything you need to get started in an all-in-one package.


The harder way
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please refer to the `Requirements`_ section to see what other packages you
might need.

**Ubuntu**:

   * Using the official package manager: ``sudo apt-get install spyder``.

     .. note::

        This package could be slightly outdated. If you find that is the case,
        please use the Debian package mentioned below.

   * Using the `pip <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pip/>`_ package manager:

     * Installing: ``sudo pip install spyder``
     * Updating: ``sudo pip install -U spyder``

     
**Debian Unstable**:
  
   Using the package manager: ``sudo apt-get install spyder``

   The Spyder's official Debian package is available `here`__ 
  
   __ http://packages.debian.org/fr/sid/spyder.


**Other Distributions**

   Spyder is also available in other GNU/Linux distributions, like

   * `Archlinux <https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/?K=spyder>`_

   * `Fedora <https://admin.fedoraproject.org/pkgdb/acls/name/spyder?_csrf_token=ab2ac812ed6df3abdf42981038a56d3d87b34128>`_

   * `Gentoo <http://packages.gentoo.org/package/dev-python/spyder>`_

   * `openSUSE <https://build.opensuse.org/package/show?package=python-spyder&project=home%3Aocefpaf>`_

   * `Mageia <http://mageia.madb.org/package/show/name/spyder>`_

   Please refer to your distribution's documentation to learn how to install it
   there.

|

Installing or running directly from source
------------------------------------------

Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The requirements to run Spyder are:

* `Python <http://www.python.org/>`_ 2.7 or >=3.3

* `PyQt5 <https://www.riverbankcomputing.com/software/pyqt/download5>`_ >=5.2 or
  `PyQt4 <https://www.riverbankcomputing.com/software/pyqt/download>`_ >=4.6.0
  (PyQt5 is recommended).

* `Qtconsole <http://jupyter.org/qtconsole/stable/>`_ >=4.2.0 -- for an
  enhanced Python interpreter.

* `Rope <http://rope.sourceforge.net/>`_ >=0.9.4 and
  `Jedi <http://jedi.jedidjah.ch/en/latest/>`_ >=0.9.0 -- for code completion,
  go-to-definition and calltips on the Editor.

* `Pyflakes <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/pyflakes>`_  -- for real-time
  code analysis.

* `Sphinx <http://sphinx.pocoo.org>`_ -- for the Help pane rich text mode
  and to get our documentation.

* `Pygments <http://pygments.org/>`_ >=2.0 -- for syntax highlighting and code
  completion in the Editor of all file types it supports.

* `Pylint <http://www.logilab.org/project/pylint>`_  -- for static code analysis.

* `Pycodestyle <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pycodestyle>`_ -- for style analysis.

* `Psutil <http://code.google.com/p/psutil/>`_  -- for memory/CPU usage in the status
  bar.

* `Nbconvert <http://nbconvert.readthedocs.org/>`_ -- to manipulate Jupyter notebooks
  on the Editor.

* `Qtawesome <https://github.com/spyder-ide/qtawesome>`_ >=0.4.1 -- for an icon theme based on
  FontAwesome.

* Pickleshare -- To show import completions on the Editor and Consoles.

* `PyZMQ <https://github.com/zeromq/pyzmq>`_ -- To run introspection services on the
  Editor asynchronously.

* `QtPy <https://github.com/spyder-ide/qtpy>`_ >=1.2.0 -- To run Spyder with PyQt4 or
  PyQt5 seamlessly.

* `Chardet <https://github.com/chardet/chardet>`_ >=2.0.0-- Character encoding auto-detection
  in Python.
  
* `Numpydoc <https://github.com/numpy/numpydoc>`_ Used by Jedi to get return types for
  functions with Numpydoc docstrings.

Optional modules
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `Matplotlib <http://matplotlib.sourceforge.net/>`_ >=1.0 -- for 2D and 3D plotting
  in the consoles.

* `Pandas <http://pandas.pydata.org/>`_ >=0.13.1 -- for view and editing DataFrames
  and Series in the Variable Explorer.

* `Numpy <http://numpy.scipy.org/>`_ -- for view and editing two or three
  dimensional arrays in the Variable Explorer.

* `Sympy <http://www.sympy.org/es/>`_ >=0.7.3 -- for working with symbolic mathematics
  in the IPython console.

* `Scipy <http://www.scipy.org/>`_ -- for importing Matlab workspace files in
  the Variable Explorer.

* `Cython <http://cython.org/>`_ >=0.21 -- Run Cython files or Python files that
  depend on Cython libraries in the IPython console.


Installation procedure
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you use Anaconda, you need to run this command to install Spyder:

   ``conda install spyder``

If you don't use Anaconda, you need to run:

   ``pip install --upgrade spyder``


Run without installing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can execute Spyder without installing it first by following these steps:

#. Unzip the source package
#. Change current directory to the unzipped directory
#. Run Spyder with the command ``python bootstrap.py``
#. (*Optional*) Build the documentation with ``python setup.py build_doc``.

This is especially useful for beta-testing, troubleshooting and development 
of Spyder itself.

|

Installing the development version
----------------------------------

If you want to try the next Spyder version, you have to:

#. Install Spyder `requirements`_

#. Install `Git <http://git-scm.com/downloads>`_, a powerful
   source control management tool.

#. Clone the Spyder source code repository with the command:

   ``git clone https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder.git``

#. To keep your repository up-to-date, run

   ``git pull``
   
   inside the cloned directory.

#. (*Optional*) If you want to read the documentation, you must build it first with
   the command
  
   ``python setup.py build_doc``

|

Help and support
----------------

Spyder websites:

* For bug reports and feature requests you can go to our
  `website <https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/issues>`_.
* For discussions and help requests, you can suscribe to our
  `Google Group <http://groups.google.com/group/spyderlib>`_.
